<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % German "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="kcmstyle" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<title
>Widget Style</title>
<authorgroup>
<author
>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Frank</firstname
><surname
>Schütte</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>F.Schuette@t-online.de</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Deutsche Übersetzung</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2018-03-18</date>
<releaseinfo
>Plasma 5.12</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>Systemeinstellungen</keyword>
<keyword
>Stil</keyword>
<keyword
>Miniprogramme</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Introduction</term>
<listitem>

<para
>This module is used to configure how the individual widgets are drawn by Plasma.</para>

<note
><para
><emphasis
>Kontrollelement (Widget)</emphasis
> ist eine übliche Sammelbezeichnung für Elemente der Benutzeroberfläche wie Knöpfe, Menüs oder Bildlaufleisten. Es sind die grundlegenden Bausteine, aus denen Anwendungen zusammengesetzt sind.</para
></note>

<para
>Sie können in diesem Abschnitt das Aussehen der Kontrollelemente festlegen, aber nicht die Farben. Diese können Sie im Abschnitt <ulink url="help:/kcontrol/colors/index.html"
>Farben</ulink
> einstellen.</para>

<para
>This panel is divided into two tabs: <guilabel
>Applications</guilabel
> and <guilabel
>Fine Tuning</guilabel
>.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Applications</guilabel
> tab</term>
<listitem>
<para
>The top drop down box, labeled <guilabel
>Widget Style</guilabel
> contains a list of the pre-defined styles. Each style has a name, and a brief description.</para>

<para
>To change styles, select a style in the drop down box, and a preview of the style will be displayed in the preview box below the style list.</para>

<para
>If a style is configurable, the <guibutton
>Configure...</guibutton
> button at the right side of the drop down box is enabled and can be used to open a dialog to select further settings.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry
> 
<term
><guilabel
>Fine Tuning</guilabel
> tab</term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry
> 
<term
><guilabel
>Show icons in buttons</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>If this option is selected, action buttons (like <guibutton
>OK</guibutton
> and <guibutton
>Apply</guibutton
>) will have a small icon located within them to act as a visual reference. If this option is not selected, then only text will appear in the button.</para>
</listitem
> 
</varlistentry
> 

<varlistentry
> 
<term
><guilabel
>Show icons in menus</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Ist diese Einstellung ausgewählt, werden in &kde;-Programmen kleine Symbole neben den meisten Menüeinträgen angezeigt, ansonsten nur der Text der Menüeinträge. Wird die Anzeige von Menüsymbolen geändert, wirkt sich das nur auf neu gestartete Programme aus.</para>
</listitem
> 
</varlistentry
> 

<varlistentry
> 
<term
><guilabel
>Main toolbar text location</guilabel
>, <guilabel
>Secondary toolbar text location</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>These drop down boxes lets you determine where on the button in both toolbars the text name of the button will appear as the default. If <guilabel
>No Text</guilabel
> is selected, then there is no text on the toolbar buttons. If <guilabel
>Text Only</guilabel
> is selected, then the button's icon is replaced with a text name of the button. If <guilabel
>Text Beside Icons</guilabel
> is selected, then the name of the button will be placed to the <emphasis
>right</emphasis
> of the icon. If <guilabel
>Text Below Icons</guilabel
> is selected, the default will be to have the text of the button <emphasis
>below</emphasis
> the icon.</para>

<tip
><para
>This option only specifies the <emphasis
>default</emphasis
> location. Each application can override the setting used in this panel.</para
></tip>
</listitem
> 
</varlistentry
> 

</variablelist>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para
>The global menu is now automatically enabled when you place a global menu applet in a panel or add the menu button to the window decoration in <guilabel
>Buttons</guilabel
> tab of the <guilabel
>Window Decorations</guilabel
> module. </para>

</article>
